									Tiger
									
General: The tiger (Panthera tigris) is the largest living cat species and a member of the genus Panthera. It is most recognisable for its dark vertical stripes on orange-brown fur with a lighter underside.

Location: The tiger historically ranged from eastern Turkey and Transcaucasia to the coast of the Sea of Japan, and from South Asia across Southeast Asia to the Indonesian islands of Sumatra, Java and Bali.

Appearance: The largest of the tigers, the Siberian Tiger, can reach almost 300 kilograms (or 650 pounds) and up to four metres in length, including a tail of about a metre long. Other tigers can be as small as a third of this size. The coat of the tiger ranges from a light fawn colour to a rich auburn gold. The actual colour depends on where in the world the tiger is situated. Those animals in the north are generally light in colour, becoming darker and darker the further south their habitat is. Not only does the base colour change intensity, but so do the stripes, which run across the width of the animal (and not from front to back).

Reproduction: Tigers reproduce sexually, with female tigers usually giving birth to several offspring at a time. ... Tigers participate in a pre-mating ritual by vocalizing or circling each other. Intercourse occurs multiple times within a span of 5 to 6 days. Successful breeding requires a gestation period of approximately 103 days.

Life: When not subject to human disturbance, the tiger is mainly diurnal. It does not often climb trees but cases have been recorded. It is a strong swimmer and often bathes in ponds, lakes and rivers, thus keeping cool in the heat of the day. The tiger is a long-ranging species, and individuals disperse over distances of up to 650 km (400 mi) to reach tiger populations in other areas. Tigers are capable of taking down larger prey like adult gaur but will also opportunistically eat much smaller prey, such as monkeys, peafowl and other ground-based birds, hares, porcupines, and fish.
